I've devised this recipe as a four-stage
process Stage one is brining the chicken
I've got the chicken in here in an 8
percent salt solution it's been in there
for 6 hours you'll notice I've removed
the wingtips I'm going to save those for
later but I've left the wishbone on
because my kids will kill me if I take
that off now to rinse the salt off this
I've filled this sink with cold water
that'll stay in there for an hour we
just need to change the water every 15
minutes now the purpose of this stage is
not to cure the chicken this is going to
make this chicken even more juicy and
succulent now for the second stage in
this four stage process this stage will
give the chicken are unbelievably crisp
skin before I do that though I'm washing
my hands it's vital to keep your hands
clean at all times when handling chicken
now over here I've got a pan of boiling
water and I've got the chicken that's
been brined and rinsed off it's a plunge
the chicken into the water just be
careful not to splash any water over
yourself and there needs to stay in
there for 30 seconds now what's
happening now is we're killing any
bacteria that might be on the outside or
in the cavity of the chicken after 30
seconds take the chicken out and using a
pair of tongs because it's a hot in
there also make sure you drain all of
the hot water out of the cavity
otherwise you're gonna burn yourself
plunge this into a bowl of ice water
this is very important what we're doing
here is we're stopping that heat
penetrating the flesh we just want it to
act on the skin once that's cooled down
bring the water back to the boil again
and repeat the process once more make
sure the water is boiling before you put
the chicken in after another 30 seconds
take the chicken out of the water back
into the ice water
so once the chicken is cold we need to
dry the skin out this is exactly the
same technique that the Chinese used to
make crispy duck you've ever noticed the
ducks hanging up in a wind / Chinese
restaurant they're hanging out to dry
they've already blanched them and that
would make the skin really crispy we're
doing exactly the same but we're going
to use the fridge because the air in the
fridge is pretty dry cover it with a
breathable fabric and place it in the
fridge overnight now for stage 3 he's a
chicken that's drying overnight now
we're going to cook it go straight into
the oven I've set this oven at 60
degrees centigrade it's vital that you
use one of these an oven thermometer
don't trust your oven this chicken is
going to stay in there for four and a
half hours now both the time and the
temperature are crucial for both hygiene
and the quality of this roast chicken
conventional wisdom says to roast
chicken at around 200 degrees centigrade
now I'm not going to do that that's far
too hot just imagine plunging your hands
into a pan of boiling water how much
damage would that do that's only a
hundred let alone 200 so we're cooking
this chicken at lower gentler
temperatures we're going to end up with
a bird that is so juicy and so succulent
now what's happening in that oven is
this over time the strands are protein
unravel leaving the meat wonderfully
tender at a higher temperatures the
protein strands would contract squeezing
the juices out leaving the meat dry
you